[MUSIC]
>> Jafar: So we're gonna do a little more
of these exercises as time goes on to
understand Observer.
We might even use up the whole table,
I'm not sure, so be ready.
So there's one more problem with this and
then I think we can ship it.
What happens if I type,
for example, ab, okay.
Good, we still got it working great.
And then I hit back space.
Okay, well we do want to
issue a network request here,
hopefully it's going out there,
am not sure what's happened there.
Might have been a failed network request
>> Jafar: Question?
>> Speaker 2: What is the advantage of
using the distinct until change over
using onChange observable?
>> Jafar: On change observable,
I don't think I'm familiar.
>> Speaker 2: Distinct
until chained with an un-
>> Jafar: I think what's being said is,
why not just subscribe to
onChange on the text box?
Is that correct?
I believe onChange on the text box only
fires when you tab away from the text box,
I could be wrong about that.
So if you're listening for
the onChange event of the text box,
you're only going to get that event fire
when you tab away from the text box.
It's not going to fire every
single time you press a key and so
it's not very good for
auto complete example but good question.
Right so but if I backspace and
delete everything here.
I'm not sure if Wikipedia, what might
be happening under on the hood is,
Wikipedia might not be able
to handle an empty search.
So, that might be why we're not
getting some search results here.
But we probably don't
wanna send a request for
an empty search in the first place, do we?
Right, probably not that useful to
send an autocomplete box request for
an empty search.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: So, a question about this,
the retry, they're saying instantly after
the error, there's another retry sent out.
>> Jafar: Instantly after, yes.
>> Speaker 2: So, is there anything
that you put on there to throttle that?
To just weigh that a little bit?
>> Jafar: I'm not sure.
If not, I think the key thing
to understand here is that
observable comes out
with a ton of operators.
A huge number of operators.
What I would highly recommend you at
home use, is RX.lite which is a version
that's really stripped down to the most
common operators that you would use.
And it's got a relatively small download
size once it's G is zipped and modified.
But if you don't have an operator
that you need, right,
you guys now know how
to write observables.
So it's nothing to it but a for
each function that returns a subscription.
And so in those cases where there's
an operator that you don't want.
Like for example they might be talking
about an exponential back off, so
one common practice is with
when you have an error,
instead of just returning immediately,
or trying immediately, excuse me.
You might want to wait a certain amount of
time, and then if you get another failure,
you might want to wait a certain
amount of time times two, right.
So just to avoid hammering the server, and
I don't believe RX has an operator out of,
I apologize.
To the writer of RX, sorry Matthew if I'm,
if I'm saying the wrong thing here but
I don't believe it has
a operator right out of the box.
It does an exponential back off.
But part of the goal here
is to be able to teach you,
as I've shown you how to
write observables right.
If there's not operator you
don't have you can go ahead and
write it, just using the, unfortunately
when you're writing observables you have
to deal with callback.
Remember when we wrote
the time out observable?
Or the from event observable?
Right, those methods?
In that world you've got
to deal with call backs.
But the good thing is only
inside of there, right?
You just have to make sure that all
that call back stuff is taken care of
inside of there.
And outside, you get a nice clean
observable that takes care of itself and
cleans after itself.
So if you're missing an operator,
you should feel confident, hopefully,
to go and write that operator, right?
It's nothing wrong with that.
It should be easy for us to write
an exponential backoff retry operator.
Won't be much more code than we saw in
the from event, as a matter of fact.
So maybe we can get to that, I'm not sure.
So we probably don't wanna send
out an empty search, right?
We probably don't wanna
send out an empty search.
So how can we avoid doing that?
>> Jafar: How do I not send
out an empty search, guys?
What's the operator I wanna use?
>> Speaker 3: Filter.
>> Jafar: Filter right,
it's all there is to it.
Let me see if I can filter this operator,
>> Jafar: And I'll use trim is it, is it
>> Jafar: You want larger than zero,
because the filter condition is the.
Sorry?
>> Speaker 3: I'm just had an hour trying
to find if there have an RX.lite package
and ironically the auto complete
search function is failing.
>> Jafar: How [LAUGH] on bower?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, on bower.io.
>> Jafar: So
let's run that one more time and
just confirm that we we don't get a search
sent off for an empty search term.
To see if we get a search sent out for
a, we should and
then if I hit back space, no search
>> Speaker 3: Cleared, eh?
>> Jafar: Sorry?
>> Speaker 3: You should
clear your results then?
>> Jafar: That's a good point.
Yeah that is actually a good point.
Yeah maybe maybe filter is
not the right operator here.
Right because we should clear
the search results that I did.
If we filter it then the old result
set is left over very good very good.
So maybe right, good point.
I'm glad we're displaying
the results here so
that we can see when a bad
decision is being made.
So if we want to avoid sending
out the search results, right.
If we wanna avoid sending out an empty
string or maybe ignore an empty string,
right, there might be a different
way we could go about it here.
Well I tell you what,
why don't we come back to that,
because I wanna move forward and
cover some other topics.
But that's auto complete box anyways.
And I think what you'll find
is that the same pattern
keeps coming up again and again.
We have an event,
we have an asynchronous request and
then we'll have some condition
under which we wanna stop, right?
So, you'll pick the right flatten, excuse
me, we have an event in an asynchronous
request, and we wanna pick
the right flatten for the job.
Does that make sense?
So, as soon as we have the event, we'll
map it into an asynchronous request, and
we'll end up with a two
dimensional observable.
Because that's how we make sure that
one thing happens after another.
We have an event and then we use map
to say, only after this event occurs,
do I want to run this function which
creates an async unobservable which will
cause an asynchronous event,
asynchronous request to occur.
And because, for each item in the event
stream we're creating another observable,
we end up with a two
dimensional observable.
And then we have to choose
the right flattening pattern for
it, that makes sense?